[Music]
we begin in Gaza City where the Israeli
military has killed at least 104
Palestinians nearly 700 people are
injured dozens in critical condition
more than 30,000 Palestinians have now
been killed since Israel began its war
on Gaza in October Thursday's attack is
being described as a massacre of
civilians by Israeli troops hundreds of
hungry and starving Palestinians had
gathered to collect food Aid when they
were attacked by Israeli snipers and
shelled by Israeli tanks Israel's Army
says its soldiers were forced to open
fire because they felt threatened by the
large crowds Safa baruti who's in Moscow
he's the Secretary General of the
Palestinian national initiative and I'd
like to ask you sir about uh meetings
taking place in Moscow in just a moment
but first let's pick up on what we've
just been talking about this decision by
uh the Israeli government uh to expand
into lands uh further land of course in
the occupied West Bank salutary to learn
that amidst these horrific events taking
place in Gaza that that at the very same
time expansion continues despite the UN
and in spite of the international court
of
justice well what you see from all that
is happening both in Gaza and West Bank
is that we are dealing with a par State
a structure that has become fascist run
by fascists in an government that
includes fascists like smotrich and Bing
and they've committed today a horrible
crime another crime a massacre that took
the lives of more than 104 people these
and and and injured more than
760 these were
civilians who are starving because
Israel is depriving them from food for
months and does not allow any supplies
to them for more than a month now and
now they are bombarding them not with
anything with artillery they know very
well that when you use artillery you can
cause so much damage and so many
killings uh in this in this manner they
use drones they use gunshots they and
then they try to justify it by saying
that Palestinians are responsible for
being killed by the same Israeli
soldiers it's unbelievable and on top of
that they are stealing land continue to
steal land in the West Bank this all is
happening because of the Silence of the
Western countries in particular the
United States of America because of the
fact that United States of America and
the government of Britain and many other
Western governments are complicit with
these crimes and allowing them to happen
this should stop immediately and it
cannot stop without immediate permanent
complete and total ceasefire without
Israeli Army withdrawing from Gaza after
they have destroyed it so much and after
they have driven so many people millions
of people to the edge of starvation and
death from starving and of course
Mustafa baruti the Palestinian people
entirely powerless to defend themselves
they don't have an army they don't even
have a state they now don't even have a
government they can't even politically
defend themselves which
presumably uh leads us to why you're in
Moscow Palestinian factions meeting in
Moscow I want to ask you first of all is
any sort of political Unity uh even
feasible and and and what is the Russian
role in all of
this well Russia just provided the space
and the invitation it's uh Russia is
facilitating this meeting nothing more
and it is a Palestinian Palestinian
meeting happening on the land of Russia
in Moscow because they invited us and
provided us with the venue but I can
tell you that the discussions that are
taking place are quite positive so far
and that I think I've never seen the
atmosphere so uh so so close to Unity as
it is today I think mainly because
people feel the responsibility after all
these massacres that our people have
been subjected to and the issue of a
future government is also being
discussed with the idea of having some
kind of a national consensus government
a government that all parties would
agree with a government that devotes its
intention and its work mainly to
alleviate this terrible suffering in
Gaza to prevent the Israeli efforts to
enforce ethnic cleansing on the people
of Gaza to allow the supplies of
everything that is necessary to for
people to survive there and uh I think
this is the atmosphere we are talking
about and the first statement that came
out from this meeting was specifically a
statement condemning this terrible
Massacre that the Israeli Army has just
committed in Gaza uh I think there is a
general feeling of responsibility here
and we are not talking about something
that will end in two days we are talking
about initiating of a initiation of a
process that hopefully will lead
eventually to complete Unity within the
ranks of a unified Palestinian
leadership I say the Palestinians don't
have a voice politically of course the
Palestinian Authority has responded uh
to these events with forceful words
aimed at the International Community uh
in the hope that they will redouble
efforts towards a ceasefire presumably a
fairly faint hope though that these
events on top of everything that has
happened in the last almost five months
will move the dial significantly in
terms of international opinion and in
terms of bringing about a
ceasefire we know very well that this
Israeli government is a fascist one and
I insist on this description they don't
care about Palestinian lives I think
they don't even care about Israeli
prisoners lives uh they care only about
staying in power they care only about
destroying the future of Palestinians
and destroying the lives of as many
Palestinians as possible uh but it is
also the responsibility of United States
of America that has prevented the
passage of any resolution for ceasefire
in the United Nations security Council
they prevented that four times and that
because of that they are not only
complicit with this crime they are
participating in this crime because
their troops are also participating in
it and their tank their planes are over
Gaza and their ships are around Gaza and
they are supplying Israel with all these
weapons that are killing the
Palestinians so time has has come to
stop this atrocity and stop talking
about international law and
international legitimacy when it comes
to countries like Ukraine but nothing
when it comes to Palestine this double
standard is awful and these crimes that
are happening in Palestine are sending
very dangerous message worldwide that
what we what we live by in this world
today is not international law but the
law of jungle and Israel is allowed to
commit all these crimes how would other
governments and countries conclude from
all these events wouldn't everybody
think now that if you have the power you
can do whatever you like you can kill
whoever you want that is totally
unacceptable they are playing with fire
they're dragging the whole world in a
very dangerous Direction and this has to
stop and it can stop immediately by
declaring immediate permanent ceasefire
and these criminals who committed the
massacre today and committed the
massacre of killing no less than 30,000
Palestinians so far and injuring more
than
70,000 have to be taken to courts have
to be held responsible in front of the
international court of justice sooner or
later we're talking about a ceasefire an
eventual ceasefire when ass assumes it
will happen it must happen all wars end
what happens next of course brings us
back to why you're in Moscow now to come
up with a unified Palestinian voice that
can take part in future negotiations
you're doing this in Russia can you give
me a sense of whether there is a road
map emerging from your meetings now that
will take you further down that road
towards unity and whether it's will be
appropriate at some point point to
involve other International powers in
your deliberations for instance the
Americans yes I can tell you uh a road
map is being formed
gradually I can say that as I said that
for the first time these meetings are
happening in a much positive
atmosphere and uh I think there are six
or seven points that we all agree about
now already and uh
I think this is a very good beginning uh
anybody who wants to help Palestinian
national Unity is is most welcome uh and
and they can contribute but the most
important thing here is that this should
be an independent Palestinian position
uh we all are aware of the fact that we
need to agree not only about a national
consensus government very soon but also
about bringing back the whole Democratic
process of Palestinians having the right
to to to to choose their leaders through
Democratic free elections but one very
important point that everybody here
realizes whether you are talking about
us or fat or Hamas or anybody else that
we cannot allow other countries other
forces to take away our right of
representing ourselves to take away the
right of Palestinians to present their
their their their interest and their
goals and their aspirations for for
getting free from this terrible
occupation and this system of aparti and
now these massacres that are conducted
against our people okay Mustafa barotti
Secretary General of the Palestinian
national initiative speaking to us there
from Moscow I thank you for your
time thank you